chore: add initial docs for performance and DB configurability (#6910)
supabase/supabase: web/docs/guides/platform/performance.mdx

---
id: performance
title: Performance Tuning
description: Getting the best results out of your Supabase project
---

> The Supabase platform automatically optimizes your Postgresql DB to take advantage of the compute resources of the tier your project is on. However, these optimizations are based on assumptions about the type of workflow the project is being utilized for, and it is likely that better results can be obtained by tuning the database for your particular workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Supabase platform automatically optimizes your Postgres database to take advantage of the compute resources of the tier your project is on. However, these optimizations are based on assumptions about the type of workflow the project is being utilized for, and it is likely that better results can be obtained by tuning the database for your particular workflow.
```

| None           | 60                     | 200                   |
| Small          | 90                     | 200                   |
| Medium         | 120                    | 200                   |
| Large          | 160                    | 300                   |
| XL             | 240                    | 700                   |
| 2XL            | 380                    | 1500                  |
| 4XL            | 480                    | 3000                  |
| 8XL            | 490                    | 6000                  |
| 12XL           | 500                    | 9000                  |
| 16XL           | 500                    | 12000                 |

If the number of connections is insufficient, you will receive the following error upon connecting to the DB:

```shell
$ psql -U postgres -h ...
FATAL: remaining connection slots are reserved for non-replication superuser connections
```

In such a scenario, you can consider either upgrading to a larger compute add-on, or alternatively, by manually configuring the database for a higher number of connections.

You can configure Postgresql by executing the following statement, followed by a server restart:

```sql

> alter system set max_connections = '<val-here>';

Reviewer 2: Once we remove superuser access, will these `alter system` commands work anymore?

```

Note that [the default configuration used by the Supabase platform](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-admin-api/blob/master/optimizations/postgres.go) optimizes the database to maximize resource utilization, and as a result, you might also need to configure other options (e.g. `work_mem`, `shared_buffers`, `maintenance_work_mem`) in order to tune them towards your use-case, and to avoid causing instability in your database.

Furthermore, note that once overridden, the Supabase platform will continue to respect your manually configured value (even if the add-on size is changed), unless the override is removed with the following statement, followed by a server restart:

```sql
alter system reset max_connections;
alter system reset <other-overridden-conf>;
...
```

Configuring the number of PGBouncer connections is not supported at this time.

## Examining Query Performance

> Each Supabase project comes with [the pg_stat_statements extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/pgstatstatements.html) enabled out of the box. This extension records query execution performance details that can be reviewed in order to find the queries that are e.g. taking the most time to execute, which you can then use in combination with the Postgresql query plan analyzer in order to come up with strategies for more efficient querying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Supabase project has [the pg_stat_statements extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/pgstatstatements.html) enabled by default. This extension records query execution performance details and is the best way to find queries that take the most time to execute. This information can combined with the Postgres query plan analyzer to develop more efficient queries.
```

Obtaining information from pg_stat_statements:
```sql
select mean_exec_time + stddev_exec_time, * from pg_stat_statements order by 1 desc;
```

Using the query plan analyzer on your expensive queries:

```sql
explain analyze <query-statement-here>;
```

> Using the query plan analyzer to optimize your queries is a massive topic in itself, with [a number](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/using-explain.html) [of online](https://theartofpostgresql.com/explain-plan-visualizer/) [resources] (https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Using_EXPLAIN) [available](https://www.enterprisedb.com/blog/postgresql-query-optimization-performance-tuning-with-explain-analyze).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful using `explain analyze` with `insert`/`update`/`delete` queries, because the query will actually run, and could have unintended side-effects.

Using the query plan analyzer to optimize your queries is a large topic, with a number of online resources available:

- [Official docs.](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/using-explain.html)
- [The Art of PostgreSQL.](https://theartofpostgresql.com/explain-plan-visualizer/)
- [Postgres Wiki.](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Using_EXPLAIN)
- [Enterprise DB.](https://www.enterprisedb.com/blog/postgresql-query-optimization-performance-tuning-with-explain-analyze)

```

> You can also pair the information available from `pg_stat_statements` with the detailed system metrics made available [via our metrics endpoint](/docs/guides/platform/metrics) in order to better understand the behaviour of your DB and the queries you're executing against it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pair the information available from `pg_stat_statements` with the detailed system metrics available [via your metrics endpoint](/docs/guides/platform/metrics) to better understand the behavior of your DB and the queries you're executing against it.
```
